# keyloggers_and_antikeyloggers
How to run the files/programs were already mentioned in the codes,folders uploaded

Key logger (keystroke logging) is a type of surveillance software that once installed in a system, has the ability to record every keystroke made on that system. The recordings are saved in a log file which is usually encrypted. 
Under this project, our group will be creating a key logger that will enable us to record all the keystrokes. It will further allow us to obtain information on everything that is being typed through a keyboard. This will let us monitor a person’s usage of the internet and all the other programs in his/her “personal” computer.By using python ,java we are executing the key loggers . 
On the other hand, key loggers can also be used to steal information in the form of malware or something similar to it. To counter this problem, an anti-key logger will also be developed that should enable us to detect whether the system is already being tracked by a key logger. Once we detects a file matching the given headers, it adds the name to a file from where upon the user is to take action on it. The anti- key logger information will allow us to be vigil and keep the information on our system secure.

a)key logger: 
A Keylogger, sometimes called a keystroke logger or system monitor, is a type of surveillance technology used to monitor and record each keystroke typed on a specific computer's keyboard. Keylogger software is also available for use on smartphones, such as Apple's iPhone and Android devices. Keyloggers are often used as a spyware tool by cyber criminals to steal personally identifiable information, login credentials and sensitive enterprise data. Key logger recorders may also be used by employers to observe employees' computer activities, parents to supervise their children's internet usage, users to track possible unauthorised activity on their devices or law enforcement agencies to analyse incidents involving computer use. 
These uses are considered ethical or appropriate in varying degrees. The main objective of key loggers is to interfere in the chain of events that happen when a key is pressed and when the data is displayed on the monitor as a result of a keystroke. A key logger can be done by introducing a wiring or a hardware bug in the keyboard, to achieve video surveillance; terminating input and/or output; or by also implementing the use of a filter driver in the keyboard stack; and demanding data from the user's keyboard using generalized documented methods. There are two other rootkit methods used by hackers: masking in kernel mode and masking in user mode.
 
 
b)Anti-Key Logger:
An anti-key logger (or anti-key stroke logger) is a type of software specifically designed for the detection of keystroke logger software; often, such software will also incorporate the ability to delete or at least immobilize hidden keystroke logger software on a computer. In comparison to most anti-virus or anti-spyware software, the primary difference is that an anti-key logger does not make a distinction between a legitimate keystroke-logging program and an illegitimate keystroke- logging program, such as malware); all keystroke logging programs are flagged and optionally removed, whether they appear to be legitimate keystroke-logging software or not.
 
Key loggers are sometimes part of malware packages downloaded onto computers without the owners' knowledge. Detecting the presence of a key logger on a computer can be difficult. So- called anti- keylogging programs have been developed to thwart keylogging systems, and these are often effective when used properly. Anti-key loggers are used both by large organizations as well as individuals in order to scan for and remove (or in some cases simply immobilize) keystroke logging software on a computer. It is generally advised the software developers that anti-keylogging scans be run on a regular basis in order to reduce the amount of time during which a key logger may record keystrokes. For example, if a system is scanned once every three days, there is a maximum of only three days during which a key logger could be hidden on the system and recording keystrokes.
